Okay, so let's go ahead and get started.
The first thing I want to do here
is open my file system and I want to create
a new folder here for Angular training.
I'll name the folder angular-training,
but you can use any name that you want to.
All righty, so let's go ahead and open up
Visual Studio Code.
And the first thing I want to do is install
the Angular CLI, or the Angular Command Line Interface.
So I'll open up a new terminal window
and I'll install it using NPM.
This install process will take a bit,
and depending on your network speed,
it could go fast or it could go slow.
But at this point, I have this installed
and it's ready to go.
And I'll verify the installation by doing an ng version.
All righty, this looks good,
tells me the version of Angular CLI tool that's installed.
I can also get some information on the help system here.
So I'll simply give ng help
and this is all very good information
in case you need to get additional help
as you going through using this tool.
All righty, so now I want to go through
and actually create a new Angular project.
And so I use that command ng new
and I give the name of my project
so I call it my first angular project .
And I'll except the defaults here for the prompts
so for routing I'll say no
and then for the style sheet format I'll choose CSS
and I will go (murmur) create all of these files here
that we discuss in the previous video.
And you can safely ignore the warning messages.
And so this will take a while,
so I go ahead and speed up the video.
So at the end I'll let you have your project created
everything's set up and ready to go.
I can see that it created a new directory for me,
My first angular project
so that's the name of our project here.
I can move into that directory.
And then I can also expand
the folders over here on the left hand side
and I can see that 'hey' it created all
of these files for me.
So these are some of the files
that you saw on the previous video.
So let's go ahead and run our application
so remember we can run the app by using ng serve
and so in the background this ng serve command
will start performing its magic.
And remember behind the scenes
that builds the app doing the compile / transpile,
It will start the server, watches the source files.
It will rebuilt the app when the source is updated
giving you a hot new look
so very nice feature here.
So can see at the bottom here
that the server is up and running
and listening on port 4200
that's the default port.
So I can go ahead and swing to a web browser
and open up localhost:4200.
And there's my application
so they give you a lot of stock information upfront
but next to the little rocket here you can see
that the name of your project my first angular project app
is up and running.
And also some really good links of resources here
for learning angular CLI blog and so fort
and also some next steps for its new components
and so on.
This page changes a lot depending
on the version of angular that your using
so each version they add new features and functionality
so what you see may be slightly different
then what we have here because
a new version of angular has released every three months.
All righty, so that's up and running
let's go ahead and and move back to our Ide.
Let's go ahead and edit the HTML template file.
So i'll zoom in here on the left hand side
and I'll go to the source directory.
I move into app and I'll open up this app component.html.
So there's a lot of information (murmur)
see here, a lot of place holder concept
that you'll see here
but let's go ahead and look for this one section of text.
So let's go ahead and do a search for "is running".
Okay, great so that's where we saw
that little piece where it says
hey our project title app is running.
So I'll add some additional text here,
I'll say YES, YES SUCCESS,
just so I know that hey this is something
that I modified, that I edited.
And then if I save this file
the recent changes are automatically reloaded
because, remember the server is actually watching
the source files
and if I move back to the browser
I'll see the updated page
and notice here the page is automatically refreshed
by angular there's no need for you
to hit the refresh button
the page will automatically update
which is kind of cool.
All righty, let's swing back over to our ide.
And I want to cut this line of code
and I'm going to delete everything else in this file.
So let's just cut this line
and delete everything else
and then we'll paste that one line.
I wanted to get rid of all the additional fluff
in that given page.
All righty, so I've saved this
and now let me swing back to my actual browser again
and see the new version.
So now I got rid of all of the fluff
and I only see my one message,
which is great and this is kind of what I'll do
for the remainder of the videos.
Okay, so this looks great.
So we're here to create a new angular project
and get it up and running and play around with it a bit.
So (murmur) say good job.